.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.TH QUAKE2 6 "2016-01-16"
.SH NAME
quake2 \- classic first person shooter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B quake2
.RI [ WRAPPER-OPTIONS ]
.RI [ ENGINE-OPTIONS ]
.RI [ ENGINE-COMMANDS ] ...
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B quake2
command.
.PP
\fBQuake II\fP is a popular first-person shooter game, released in 1997
by iD Software.  This wrapper script will launch the Quake II engine.  The
game data needs to be installed independently using the 'game-data-packager'
program, and by default it will be looked for at \fI/usr/share/games/quake2\fR
and \fI/usr/share/games/quake2-demo\fR.
.PP
This wrapper script accepts a few GNU-style options.
Any further arguments are passed to the engine unmodified.
Consult the engine documentation for full details, but most engines support a
syntax where you can give console commands by prefixing with a plus sign.
.PP
Additionally, if \fBquake2\fR is run via a symbolic link whose name
contains \fBreckoning\fR, \fBxatrix\fR, \fBgroundzero\fR or \fBrogue\fR,
it will play one of the Quake II mission packs, \fBThe Reckoning\fR
(by Xatrix Entertainment) or \fBGround Zero\fR (by Rogue
Entertainment). This requires that additional data files are
installed.
.SH OPTIONS
These options are accepted for \fBWRAPPER-OPTIONS\fR in the
synopsis.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Show version of program.
.TP
.B \-\-engine=\fBENGINE\fR
Select a non-default Quake II engine binary
.TP
.B \-\-demo
Use the demo data, even if you have both the demo and the full version
installed
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Disable all console output
.TP
\fB\-\-debugger=\fIDEBUGGER\fR
Prepend a debugger or other prefix (such as \fBstrace\fR) to the engine
command line
.TP
\fB\-\-print\-backtrace\fR
Use \fBgdb\fR(1) to get a backtrace if the engine crashes (the \fBgdb\fR
package must be installed)
.SH EXAMPLES
Play the demo in cooperative mode:
.B quake2 --demo +map demo1 +set coop 1
.TP
Connect to a server for multiplayer:
.B quake2 +connect quake2.example.com
.TP
Run the client as a temporary dedicated server (see the \fBquake2-server\fR
package for more server infrastructure):
.B quake2 +set dedicated 1 +set deathmatch 1 +map q2dm1
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR quake2-server (6),
.BR game-data-packager (6).
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page, and the quake2 wrapper script, were written by Simon McVittie
<smcv@debian.org>, for the Debian project (and may be used by others).
They are based on the Quake packaging by David Banks and Simon McVittie.
