.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.TH QUAKE2-SERVER 6 "2013-09-26"
.SH NAME
quake2-server \- classic first person shooter (dedicated server)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B quake2-server
.RI [ WRAPPER-OPTIONS ]
.RI [ ENGINE-OPTIONS ]
.RI [ ENGINE-COMMANDS ] ...
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B quake2-server
command.
.PP
\fBQuake II\fP is a popular first-person shooter game, released in 1997
by iD Software.  This wrapper script will launch the Quake II engine.  The
game data needs to be installed independently using the 'game-data-packager'
program, and by default it will be looked for at \fI/usr/share/games/quake2\fR
and \fI/usr/share/games/quake2-demo\fR.
.PP
This wrapper script accepts a few GNU-style options.
Any further arguments are passed to the engine unmodified.
Consult the engine documentation for full details, but most engines support a
syntax where you can give console commands by prefixing with a plus sign.
.PP
In addition to any arguments on the command line, the quake2-server script
automatically passes the arguments "+set dedicated 1" to the engine.
.SH OPTIONS
These options are accepted for \fBWRAPPER-OPTIONS\fR in the
synopsis.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Show version of program.
.TP
.B \-\-engine=\fBENGINE\fR
Select a non-default Quake II engine binary
.TP
.B \-\-demo
Use the demo data, even if you have both the demo and the full version
installed
.SH EXAMPLES
Run a server to play the demo in cooperative mode:
.B quake2-server --demo +map demo1 +set coop 1
.TP
Run a deathmatch server:
.B quake2-server +map q2dm1 +set deathmatch 1
.TP
Use the default server configuration in /etc/quake2-server/debian_server.cfg:
.B quake2-server +exec debian_server.cfg
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR quake2 (6),
.BR game-data-packager (6).
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page, and the quake2-server wrapper script, were written by
Simon McVittie <smcv@debian.org>, for the Debian project (and may be used
by others). They are based on the Quake packaging by David Banks and
Simon McVittie.
